The work I have done till now revolves just in understanding the existing literature, setting up code environment and  testing a small script for simple motion detection.

1. Literature

The task that we have which I understand is how to detect violence in videos. The most important literature on this I found is present here-

https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0203668

This work is a classic use of Machine Learning to label a video as violent or not. Works that builds on this paper is as follows.

https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~rahuls/pub/caip2011-rahuls.pdf

The major violence detection occurs through the sequence-
a. Motion Detection
b. Feature determination (interaction within a detected motion)
c. Feature extraction using a Bag of Words (BOW). This strategy has both advantages and disadvantages as it is agnostic to relative presence of the pixels beingselected for violence. 
d. The extracted vectors of pixels are passed into a classification algorithm like SVM to classify the video as violent or not.

My observations-

a and b are inevitable process in detecting surveillance videos. In part a, motion detection happens through relative pixel change for a threshold contour in moving frames. I have started my work on this. 

b is currently where multiple iterations can be done on improvement. Firstly, the interaction determined in the literature I reviewed used Histogram based feature extraction techniques. 

In d, SVM algorithm is the safest algorithm that computes global optimized classification. Other algorithms like Gaussian mixture models can be used.

Also, the other works focus on including noises, screech sound, gunshots to include with the motion detected feature.


2. Code Environment

After careful consideration, I am using openCV in Pyhton to detect motion. In the above said section b, I am planning to incroporate angles generated from OpenPose along with/ instead of Histogram model in subsequent week.

3. Script

Currently, I tried to test two RUPTLY videos to sense for motion. The video fairly detects the frames. However, the contour threshold should be altered for a CCTV like video as it captures mass movements. Based on what is defined as violence, training data can be generated through a scraping script.

python m_detect.py

Is the script I am testing.

4. I will send the questions I have at this point in Slack.

 
